# CS1231 Discrete Structures

## Taken 

AY2018/19 Semester 1 

## Grading Overview 

| Component | Percentage | 
| :---- | :------ | 
| Tutorial Attendance   | 5%  | 
| Assignments   | 20%  | 
| Midterms   | 25%  | 
| Finals   | 50%  | 

## Brief Overview

Logic is important in Computer Science! It is important that you grasp the concepts here in CS1231 for future modules such as CS2040/S and CS3230 where proving techniques are still applicable and important. This module emphasizes a lot in proofing, by a lot I mean a lot. So do try to practice as A-level Mathematics do not really ask you to do much proving.

The pace of lectures might be quite fast, so if you have questions, do clarify them early and not wait till the last minute before Midterms and/or Finals.

Do note that the concepts of Graph Theory here are important and do not forget about these concepts! These concepts will definitely be covered again in CS2040/S.

## Workload 

7/10

Doing tutorial worksheets, attending tutorials and lectures and revising enough for Midterms and Finals should assure you a pass.

Do attempt past year papers to get yourself familiarized on how the topics covered might be tested.

I would suggest freshmen to take this mod along with CS1101S unelss you have not cleared MA1301 or its prerequisite.

## Difficulty 

7/10

Providing and Predicate Logic might be a bit hard to grasp at first. However, practice will really make you better at such concepts.

Always be careful of graph theory.

## Grade 

Expected: B+ / A-

Actual: A-
